## Events in JS

### What are Events?

- Events are actions or occurrences that happen in the system you are programming, which the system tells you about so your code can react to them.

### Listening to / Removing Events

- Refer to the events.js file for how it's implemented.
- The elegant way of listening to events is just by using the addEventListener method provided on HTMLElements.

* When removing event listeners, the binded function should be named functions. Binding arguments / this to a function which is added to an event won't work upon removing event listeners.

### Event Object

- Refer to the events.js file for how it's implemented.

* Target property is useful for interacting with the element on which the event is associated.

### Bubbling & Capturing

- Capturing : browser looks up for event listeners starting from the parent element of a nested element. It then triggers that event before moving upon any nested elements.

- Bubbling : is basically the opposite of capturing. Most browsers by default follow this method where the event in the nested element is triggered first.

- To prevent event triggering due to bubbling or capturing on nested or parent elements, use the stopPropagation method on the event object.

### Event Delegation

- Refer to events.js file.
- Shines for using in a list structure to enhance performance by conserving event listeners.

### Event handlers and this keyword

- If the event handler function is an arrow function, there is no explicit binding created with this. It will just refer to the object that called the event listener, usually the browser window.

- However, if the the event handler is a normal function declaration, the this keyword refers to event.currentTarget.

### Drag and Drop

- To make elements draggable, elements must be set as draggable using that property. Then a 'dragstart' event must be listened to.

- Add the 'dragenter' and 'dragover' to the element that's recieving and preventDefault.

- Listen to 'drop' event and update the UI / data in the recieving the element.
