# Arrays and Iterables in JavaScript

- More explanation on Arrays and Iterables.

### Iterables

- Objects that implement the iterable protocol and have an iterator method(Symbol.iterator).
- Examples are: NodeList, Arrays, Strings, Maps, Sets.

### Array-like Object

- Objects that have the length property and use indexes for access
- Examples are: NodeList, Strings.

### Creating Arrays

- Refer to the arrays.js script in this module.

### Data in Arrays

- Several data-structures can be stored in arrays.
- Numbers, Strings, Objects or mixture of any can be stored in arrays.
- Arrays can also be stored within arrays.(Nesting)

### Array Methods

- Refer to arrayMethods.js, searchingArrays.js and specialMethods.js scripts in this module.

### Spread Operator and Array Desturcturing

- Refer to spreadOp.js script in this module.

### Maps and Sets

- Sets : an iterable nested data-structure of any kind and length. It has some special methods availabe, apart from arrays. Order is not guaranteed and duplicated are no allowed.

- Maps : key-value data is stored. Any key data-type is allowed. It is also an iterable with its own special methods. Order is guaranteed, and duplicated keys are not allowed.

- Refer to mapsSets.js script in this module.

### Weak Maps and Sets

- Weak Sets : useful to indicate to the JS Engine in browsers to discard of variables / memory addresses when clearing an object. It only accepts objects as entries, and in the case we set an object to null to clear it, the weak set doesn't latch on to it as a normal set would. Hence, at some time frame garabge collection can kickin to get rid of the references of the object and free memory.

- Weak Maps : they work the same way as weak sets do execpt, the objects are keys of the map. As in with weak-set, entries of weak maps are not guaranteed since they maybe garbage collected. Weak-maps won't hold on to object keys that are cleared.
